every week over six thousand six hundred
people vacation aboard the world's
largest cruise ship and all those people
need to eat three four eight times a day
you have to calculate that is breakfast
lunch and dinner
blue snacks + r9 + or 24 hours food all
around and that never stop ship kitchens
run 24/7 manned by a culinary team of
more than a thousand people they dish
out over 30,000 meals every single day
and they do it all from compact kitchens
on a rocking ship so how does all this
food make it to the plate we'll start on
the loading dock on a Saturday this is
turnaround day when all new food is
delivered to deck - this is basically a
place that you would not like to be on
on turnaround Eve and we are loading
it's busy busy super busy that's jarett
he orders food for the ship's 23
different restaurants every week Jared's
got a 1 million dollar shopping budget
all of that is just for seven days of
food sometimes Jarrett will tweak his
orders based on who's coming aboard more
kids means more chicken fingers that's
how the operation runs so we monitor it
on a daily basis what has been used what
has not been used and then we adjust our
orders accordingly but by and large
being in Miami having the same number of
people it's almost the same every cruise
on turnaround day 30 trucks arrive at
Miami port they're carrying 500 pallets
worth of inventory and all that has to
be loaded onto the ship by 4:00 p.m. any
delay in our operation can hamper the
sail away of the ship which is again a
big logistic requirement over 600,000
pounds of food and drinks are
provisioned for just one week of sailing
once on board everything is moved along
the ship's secret Highway
this is i-95 and it runs the entire
length of the ship on deck 2 we separate
all the stores to the different location
that you are supposed to go we have
about 20 different storerooms divided
into freezers fridges walking fridges
and rice stores seafood meat vegetables
and fruit are all divided and stored in
separate fridges if you come towards the
end of the cruise this box will be
almost empty with a few fruits that are
needed for two more days
which we keep as backup stock there are
also six freezers that's where the 700
pounds of ice cream that will be eaten
each week are stored dry goods are
stored down on deck one full of spices
full of chocolate in the storeroom
coffee is nice to be in the storeroom in
an elevator gets the food downstairs
Jared's team checks all of the food for
quality control every day if produce is
ripening faster than expected they try
to work it into another meal for example
overripe broccoli could go into broccoli
cheddar soup instead of being tossed
once inventory is stored restaurants on
upper decks put in food orders with
Jarrett chefs will come downstairs pick
up their order and cart it away to be
cooked that's where this guy comes in
any food unball this beautiful shape
everything you really it's my
responsibility wherever you have
beautiful potato fries it's my rice is
my pate is my paste is my Sala shrink
whatever you IDI is my responsibility
Rijo steam of 280 chefs run the kitchens
24/7
each chef works ten to twelve hour days
contracts typically last four months
without a single day off some of the
people start to working for 800 in the
morning all the way to 2 o'clock take a
break I'm back I can fire claw feeling
by night Terry they another group they
start to work in tango friend and I all
the way to 10 Oakland demony
so we cover day and night productions
chefs on board cook up nearly a hundred
different menus every week all the menus
are developed at Royal Caribbean's Miami
headquarters and every week chefs stick
to the same rotation of menus cooking up
everything from racks of lamb to hand
rolled sushi the
it has to be diverse to match Symphony
of the Seas international passengers
vacationing at all kinds of price points
we try to please everybody optimist with
everybody to find what you're looking
for all the cooking happens in 36
kitchens
we're galleys as they're called on the
ship there are 12 specialty restaurants
onboard costing up to $50 a person and
each of those restaurants has its own
small galley in those tight quarters
chef's crank out the same menu every day
a Jamie's Italian it's fresh pasta at
hooked it's over two thousand oysters
shucked per cruise but the largest
amount of food is reserved for the main
dining room which spans three decks and
serves up to six thousand people a night
eating here is included in your ticket
before food heads up to the main galleys
it starts in one of the prep kitchens
off i-95 there's a butcher shop what da
good morning these are the gentlemen
looking after all the meat gods the
butcher goes through about 15,000 pounds
of beef and nine thousand seven hundred
pounds of chicken each week there's also
a veggie cutting room and a fish sawing
box lobster is the most popular dish in
Maine dining the ship goes through about
2,100 pounds of lobster tails every week
finally the food heads upstairs to the
main galley the ship's biggest kitchen
is broken down by categories desserts
bread cold food and hot food and dessert
chefs whip up cakes chocolates and a
hundred different types of pastries over
in the bread bakery they make 40
different kinds of bread from all over
the world all from scratch but the real
hustle comes just before the dinner rush
six thousand hungry passengers in the
main dining room
remember Rico before dinner prep starts
he has to approve all the dishes
Rico tries each dish and gives his
critiques
[Music]
chef's take his notes and get cooking
chefs can see a tally of each dish
ordered up on screens the system also
keeps track of how much inventory is
used in the cold room salads and
appetizers like carpaccio come together
in the hot room chefs dish out soups
sauces sides and mains plating up chefs
on a stove poking so everything we do is
sleep batch cooking so basically let's
take there we pass it over to the pass
the person on the pass is planing it out
to the requested temperature their meats
always that the guests are getting fresh
food and all the operational point we
don't have any other products
finally waiters deliver those dishes
hungry passengers out in main dining
between the chef's inventory crew
waiters and dishwashers it takes a team
of 1085 people to keep this massive
operation going together they cook
nearly 11 million meals each year and
they're doing it all on a moving ship
the ship is rocking then all the
equipment is billed to the ship rocking
and in whatever moment maybe the ship
move somebody don't put one break in one
in one trolley and you see the trolley
fly-in away and happen that's why all
the cooks always be the attention with
that but if crew members are doing their
job right passengers won't even know any
of it's happening they'll just get back
to eating their eighth meal of the day